David Dobervich (he/him): Okay,
really,
Bradley Scholten: how's it going? How do you feel?
Bradley Scholten: I feel fine like still, not like a little bit of like cold symptoms, you know, like a little bit of coughing, stuffy nose. But I feel like good like,
Bradley Scholten: and just gotta wait for a test or
Bradley Scholten: Monday like after ten days, even if you are testing positive. They say you have to come back to work anyways. So too long.
David Dobervich (he/him): And just like, okay,
David Dobervich (he/him): cool.
David Dobervich (he/him): Here's a
David Dobervich (he/him): Here's what we did during Halloween.
Bradley Scholten: Whoa! That's a big tree,
David Dobervich (he/him): very cool, like stuff hanging from the ceiling.
Bradley Scholten: Very nice. Yeah.
David Dobervich (he/him): So I just uh making the slides for today. I am uploading the video from yesterday.
David Dobervich (he/him): Um, what's next in the grand scheme
Bradley Scholten: in the grand scheme? Um.
Bradley Scholten: Let's see here, plop in the calendar
Bradley Scholten: all right um
Bradley Scholten: in the grand scheme. So I
Bradley Scholten: something still messed up with this video. Sorry, is it?
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah, I wonder if it only partially uploaded? What's the file size on your hard drive.
Bradley Scholten: Oh, it does. Still saying it's uploading right now. It says sixty. One uploaded. That's weird. Because yesterday it said it was fully uploaded.
Bradley Scholten: Hmm.
Bradley Scholten: I'll check on it in a moment to see if it changes from sixty. One. Oh, there it just moved to sixty, two, so
Bradley Scholten: I guess I Let's just wait, and i'll do it at the end. Yeah, I guess it's taken four K: That must be why it's taking so long.
Bradley Scholten: Um!
Bradley Scholten: So I skipped a a probability lesson.
Bradley Scholten: Um,
Bradley Scholten: and I think I need to go back to it, which is going to be just sort of showing them the
Bradley Scholten: the conditional probability thing like when you rearrange it, you get the the general multiplication rule, which again, they already sort of knew about like
Bradley Scholten: um. But then having some practice with that, and probably some general practice.
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay,
Bradley Scholten: Um. So the only other thing next week is to talk about completely randomized design.
David Dobervich (he/him): Oh, great.
David Dobervich (he/him): Oh, cause it's.
Bradley Scholten: But we have no Friday next week.
Bradley Scholten: Hmm. Hold on. Let me think about this here.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah, because we pushed some things around, and I didn't realize I forgot about that.
Bradley Scholten: Okay,
Bradley Scholten: Mhm.
Bradley Scholten: Um.
Then, yeah, we should.
Bradley Scholten: We should do something on that day with a probability lesson
Bradley Scholten: number nine and ten down here. No, It's B. A. B. A:
David Dobervich (he/him): That's pretty irritating,
Bradley Scholten: very irritating.
Bradley Scholten: Um. And then
Bradley Scholten: okay, Well, that means Monday. Tuesday. Oh, shoot, Okay,
Bradley Scholten: That means we need video and video notes for next week.
Bradley Scholten: Shoot
Bradley Scholten: like to hand out next class
Bradley Scholten: um, And it's about completely randomized design.
David Dobervich (he/him): So the good news is that's probably pretty fast to put together.
David Dobervich (he/him): Is your next class tomorrow?
Bradley Scholten: Yeah,
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah, that's irritating. Okay? Uh:
David Dobervich (he/him): because the problem is like I could probably do it during first block tomorrow, or maybe I could even do it before first block tomorrow.
Bradley Scholten: I mean, that would be
Bradley Scholten: fine,
Bradley Scholten: because
Bradley Scholten: if i'm not there,
Bradley Scholten: then they would probably only watch the video like during the last half hour of class.
Bradley Scholten: Um!
Bradley Scholten: And then, if I was there, then it would just be for homework. And so it doesn't need to be ready
Bradley Scholten: actually during that time.
Bradley Scholten: So if you think you could pull something together
Bradley Scholten: real fast on that, otherwise we could always just go with just pulling coning's video over and using his notes for last year,
David Dobervich (he/him): because a lot of it is. Repeat from my original video, plus a couple of extra things like blinding
David Dobervich (he/him): placebo.
David Dobervich (he/him): And then like being clear about how you write up your procedure
David Dobervich (he/him): factor, response levels, treatments, et cetera.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah,
Bradley Scholten: Um.
Bradley Scholten: Cool.
Bradley Scholten: Alright.
Bradley Scholten: Just just things here.
Bradley Scholten: Okay,
Bradley Scholten: Um:
Bradley Scholten: Okay.
Bradley Scholten: So that sounds good. And
Bradley Scholten: what is coning thing from last year with regard to that, Is that good enough for us.
David Dobervich (he/him): Wait! What's this other end? Oh, Rams block design
Bradley Scholten: is the Sashini chairman Still Good.
Bradley Scholten: I mean, I think it's acceptable.
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah, let's see that
Bradley Scholten: Okay,
Bradley Scholten: Um,
Bradley Scholten: um. Keep forgetting to to ask
Bradley Scholten: which is, you know, students asked a lot last year, and then I had the same question, and I think you had the same question, What is the difference between a factor and a level?
Bradley Scholten: Yeah. Good question. I was going to try and decide
David Dobervich (he/him): before I made the notes. Um,
Bradley Scholten: It sort of seems like Factor is possibly like the big umbrella term,
Bradley Scholten: and like level is like the specifics within that,
Bradley Scholten: because like here, factor is
David Dobervich (he/him): factor is a way of referring to your categorical variable.
David Dobervich (he/him): That's your um explanatory variable.
David Dobervich (he/him): And in fact, our levels are the possible values that the factor can take.
Bradley Scholten: Okay,
David Dobervich (he/him): So I will be explicit with this in the notes.
Bradley Scholten: I'm: got
Bradley Scholten: cool.
Bradley Scholten: Um.
Bradley Scholten: And to ask,
Bradley Scholten: Okay,
Bradley Scholten: making new folders and stuff,
Bradley Scholten: All right? Yeah. The
Bradley Scholten: obviously copies of the the video notes whenever you finish those up and then um the activity for sampling methods,
Bradley Scholten: which was like the farm thing which i'm moving over right now.
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay,
Bradley Scholten: cool,
Bradley Scholten: All right. Um.
Bradley Scholten: And then
Bradley Scholten: we also need to plan three point five, since there's
Bradley Scholten: just block design.
Bradley Scholten: That's block design. Yeah,
um.
Bradley Scholten: So I guess. Let's look at
Bradley Scholten: what
Bradley Scholten: Derek did last year
Bradley Scholten: for the notes and see if there's anything in there that
Bradley Scholten: we think really should be changed.
Let's see.
Bradley Scholten: All right. I'm sharing my screen.
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah, I was just looking at that.
David Dobervich (he/him): So anything in you, as usual. Let's just make it
David Dobervich (he/him): like less verbose,
David Dobervich (he/him): and try and like visually organize it a little bit more clearly.
Bradley Scholten: Okay, do you have like?
Bradley Scholten: Do you have like a visual that you're thinking of doing for this next set of videos that we could just sort of go through,
Bradley Scholten: or
Bradley Scholten: I was just trying to think like, should we just like,
Bradley Scholten: you know, If you come up with a visual, then like we'll stick with that since you're the first sort of video for this.
Bradley Scholten: Oh, and um. Another question. Is it your understanding that students either need
Bradley Scholten: like the words like the bullet points up here, or a diagram like below? Not necessarily both. Is that what you understood to or
David Dobervich (he/him): no?
David Dobervich (he/him): I didn't have an understanding. I always said both, but it did seem a little redundant,
David Dobervich (he/him): but, like just having the diagram doesn't Feel like quite enough.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah,
David Dobervich (he/him): because you're not clearly identifying stuff like the factor
David Dobervich (he/him): and the treatments.
David Dobervich (he/him): Is this diagram like a like an Ap. Thing.
Bradley Scholten: Um, I feel like it is. Let me see if I can find
Bradley Scholten: um.
Bradley Scholten: I feel like there was an fr qu of the day sort of thing
Bradley Scholten: that we did.
Bradley Scholten: And when I googled, you know, for the how did it college board
Bradley Scholten: come up with this
Bradley Scholten: that they
Bradley Scholten: I feel like gave like
I thought it could be like one or the other two thousand number five.
Bradley Scholten: So when it's earlier.
Bradley Scholten: Okay,
Bradley Scholten: stats.
Bradley Scholten: so describes or gives a detailed diagram,
Bradley Scholten: and in the description
Bradley Scholten: they need.
Bradley Scholten: So this is for just a regular experiment, random assignment,
Bradley Scholten: identification of treatment groups,
Bradley Scholten: and an indication that a comparison or measurement should be made at the end,
Bradley Scholten: and they're just like their diagrams Have just that, just like random subjects. Next group
Bradley Scholten: treatments.
Bradley Scholten: Compare this at the end,
Bradley Scholten: and then the same thing with block design, because it was like a first create it this way, now created with the block design.
Bradley Scholten: So
Bradley Scholten: I don't know. Do we want to tell them that it should be one or the other, or do we want to tell them? Do both?
David Dobervich (he/him): Um,
David Dobervich (he/him): I want to tell them do both, but maybe
David Dobervich (he/him): a modified version of both. What do we actually Let's certainly have the diagram
David Dobervich (he/him): that covers assignments
David Dobervich (he/him): that covers blocking
David Dobervich (he/him): that covers
David Dobervich (he/him): subjects.
David Dobervich (he/him): So let's say they need to do.
David Dobervich (he/him): Let's say they need to do uh
David Dobervich (he/him): factor
David Dobervich (he/him): response or like factor plus levels and response, because that's identifying the explanatory and response variables.
David Dobervich (he/him): They need to identify the treatment
David Dobervich (he/him): and blinding. And then the diagram
David Dobervich (he/him): which covers everything else.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah.
Bradley Scholten: Oh, wait, I guess. Actually, my question is, what's the difference between levels and treatments, because that's always the thing.
Bradley Scholten: That's what I remember now is that that's always like the same as levels was always what we wrote for treatments.
Bradley Scholten: What's the difference? Then?
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay,
Bradley Scholten: let's see. Is your vocab.
Bradley Scholten: Okay, A level? The specific value. Okay. Treatments: The controlled circumstances applied to experimental groups made of different levels of single factors or combinations of two or more factor levels.
Bradley Scholten: Okay, the sense I have is the treatment represents each combination of factor levels.
Bradley Scholten: Okay, so like this would be a scenario if let's say
Bradley Scholten: so, We We wouldn't write same as levels in this scenario where it's like. Let's say we were interested in weight loss.
Bradley Scholten: We have a pill.
Bradley Scholten: We have exercise as our two sort of
Bradley Scholten: explanatory variables.
Bradley Scholten: And so we're gonna go like this group
Bradley Scholten: is gonna just get the pill. No exercise. This other group is gonna get exercise note just and no pill. This group's gonna get neither of those. This group has to do both. That would be a scenario where we wouldn't just write treatment same as levels. Okay,
that's what I was describing it last year, and
Bradley Scholten: as I was saying it, I felt really good about it.
Bradley Scholten: And then I never went back to confirm that I was saying actually the right things.
Bradley Scholten: Okay,
So
Bradley Scholten: back to the visual.
Bradley Scholten: So you don't you.
Bradley Scholten: What of coning's? Sort of write ups and stuff like that? Do you like
Bradley Scholten: for randomized blocks
Bradley Scholten: like. Obviously there's an extra bullet point in here because of blocking.
Bradley Scholten: But like,
Bradley Scholten: if you were like, if this is your first shot at just sort of like. Oh, I want them to sort of write some stuff, and then I want them to
Bradley Scholten: um draw a diagram like,
Bradley Scholten: How would you organize it, or what makes sense to you.
David Dobervich (he/him): Let me think about it.
David Dobervich (he/him): So it follows a little bit what I did in my three D. One notes,
David Dobervich (he/him): so I would have them explicitly right the population of interest,
David Dobervich (he/him): and then indicate how the subjects or the experimental units were sampled from the population of interest,
David Dobervich (he/him): which is something that the block diagram leaves out. The block diagram just starts with. We have one hundred and three Ap. St. Students,
David Dobervich (he/him): whereas I would start with like population of interest. Ap stats, students,
David Dobervich (he/him): you know, like like in like worldwide ap St. Students, or like American ap stats, students or something.
David Dobervich (he/him): And then I would indicate, like
David Dobervich (he/him): simple random sample or convenient sample, or whatever
David Dobervich (he/him): that gives you your one hundred and three Ap. St. Students. So for us it's a convenient sample.
David Dobervich (he/him): Assuming these are like our students. Um,
David Dobervich (he/him): you know, just to be like fully explicit about what's going on here. Um,
David Dobervich (he/him): Then I like for blocking. I like. I like this indication of the two blocks. That's fine.
David Dobervich (he/him): Um!
David Dobervich (he/him): I like this indication of how are we doing the random assignment
David Dobervich (he/him): in uh to the treatments?
David Dobervich (he/him): I think it would be nice
David Dobervich (he/him): to visually indicate, like, what's the control, and what are the kind of test ones
Bradley Scholten: this bracketing for showing how the comparison happens?
Bradley Scholten: Is there any benefit to like having them?
Bradley Scholten: Maybe in the beginning stating what type of design they're doing before jumping in? Because i'm noticing like, and the bullet points over here. Blocking comes like the fifth one down, but that feels like something that you need to think about. I know it says up here like create a randomized block design. So it's kind of given,
Bradley Scholten: but it feels like one of those things Works like you should be thinking about. That, actually, initially, is like,
Bradley Scholten: Is there a reason to block here?
Bradley Scholten: And why?
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah, like that?
Bradley Scholten: Uh, let me write this down
David Dobervich (he/him): so initially, like type of study. And If the type of study is experiment, then it's like like type of experiment, or like experimental design type.
David Dobervich (he/him): Um,
David Dobervich (he/him): let's have them List factor, which is explanatory variable
David Dobervich (he/him): and response,
David Dobervich (he/him): and maybe levels also there,
Bradley Scholten: Apparently you're not missing much at your your schoology training
uh the schoology leads aren't even there right now.
David Dobervich (he/him): I didn't even know that was happening.
Bradley Scholten: They canceled the meeting
Bradley Scholten: uh terra text Texas last night, and was like, Oh, man, like you guys are so lucky you're out. Let me get this stupid training. We're like what?
David Dobervich (he/him): All right?
David Dobervich (he/him): Yeah. So So they really The only difference in what we've said so far is, let's have the first thing be the type of study.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah,
David Dobervich (he/him): Okay.
Bradley Scholten: Video: three point three is ninety, six uploaded.
Bradley Scholten: So it should be done soon.
David Dobervich (he/him): And I mean, like
David Dobervich (he/him): all of this, skips over like what is the actual experimental protocol?
David Dobervich (he/him): But they won't. They Won't usually be writing that down.
Bradley Scholten: What do you mean by that.
But I just wanted to say out loud that we're skipping that.
Bradley Scholten: What do you mean by the experimental protocol? What do you
David Dobervich (he/him): so like in my example where it was like we were. We have a hair growth formula.
David Dobervich (he/him): You can't just send your test group home and be like. Use This you have to, you know, give enough precision that your test subjects are using it in the same way.
Bradley Scholten: Yeah, there is a lot of yeah. We send students home to do these problems, like,
Bradley Scholten: you know,
Bradley Scholten: like one?
Bradley Scholten: Are they actually going to do it? And then to
Bradley Scholten: what does it mean to do? A problem, you know, like there's different levels of what students know.
Bradley Scholten: Right? You're like study for thirty minutes, and some students study with their phone and stuff. You can study without their phone.
Bradley Scholten: Okay? Um:
Well,
Bradley Scholten: I feel pretty good.
Bradley Scholten: Uh, can you check to see if the video
Bradley Scholten: is
Bradley Scholten: good Now it says that it's synced. But Then there's this other one with a bunch of weird suffix letters and dashes that says it's still uploading, so
David Dobervich (he/him): I do not see an uploaded one yet. Right. We've got the suffix one,
Bradley Scholten: but you don't see one that doesn't have the suffix.
Bradley Scholten: All right. Let me see if I can. Is it? Are we done enough that I can go to the restroom.
Bradley Scholten: What inspiration I get to do! The next video notes for the block design
Bradley Scholten: sounds good.